Chapter 13, and we come to the end of this book.
It's been a great journey.
I've thoroughly enjoyed studying through
and preaching through the book of 2 Corinthians.
It was several years ago, 2018,
when I taught through the book of 1 Corinthians
in an adult Sunday school class.
The plan as I started to teach that particular series
was that we'd go from 1 Corinthians
into 2 Corinthians,
but by the time we finished 1 Corinthians,
COVID was upon us,
and we didn't have Sunday school for a period of time,
and what have you,
and so we never got into the book of 2 Corinthians,
but God was in that,
and sometimes we try to plan things,
and we don't understand,
and then other times we plan things,
and God works in distinct ways,
and it wasn't until this calendar year,
actually a little over a year ago,
that I was praying about the theme for this year,
and God led me to the book of 2 Corinthians
with our theme, God's grace is sufficient,
and oh, how God's hand has so obviously
been in the theme for this calendar year
for us to be reminded that God's grace is sufficient,
and we've, of course,
we've had the opportunity to sing about that,
preach about that,
and such a blessed truth from God's word.
As we finish up the book this morning,
we'll have one final message in a couple of weeks
on the 28th, Lord willing to kind of finish up
with a thought on grace specifically,
but this morning as we look at verses 11 through 14
of 2 Corinthians 13,
we come to this final charge, if you will,
the closing of the book,
and here's what Paul says,
beginning in verse number 11,
as he's writing to these believers,
finally, brethren, farewell.
Be perfect, be of good comfort,
be of one mind, live in peace,
and the God of love and peace shall be with you.
Greet one another with a holy kiss.
All the saints salute you.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ,
the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost
be with you all, amen.
As we find in this 13th chapter,
we looked at last week,
we noted that the Apostle Paul really issued a demand
to the believers there in Corinth,
the people in Corinth,
and that demand was that they examine themselves,
and we discussed it last week,
they had spent so much time putting the Apostle Paul
under the microscope,
and now they've been challenged,
they've had this demand issued to them
that they examine themselves,
and we said this,
that they needed to examine themselves in the same manner
in which they had been examining the Apostle Paul,
and we find that he then goes on
in that passage of scripture to explain his concern
for their spiritual growth,
and his desire to see them live a life
that is pleasing to the Lord.
Earlier in the book,
he's had the opportunity to share with them the truth
that they will stand before God one day,
and that they will give an account,
and that we're to live and to seek to please our Savior
through all that we say and all that we do,
and we find that as we come to these last few verses,
I've titled the message Farewell,
and I want you to just think about it for a moment
as being the original recipients of the letter,
and a letter coming to a close,
and obviously we understand that all scripture
is given by inspiration of God,
but just as God inspired the opening
of this particular epistle,
he inspires the closing of this epistle,
and God knew exactly how much to include,
and when the ending would come,
and it's such a short passage of scripture,
but it's packed with a summary really
to these believers in Corinth of the entirety of the book,
and we find that he issues this farewell.
The letter ends, I believe,
with instruction on really two things,
one being behavior, and the second being belief,
and it's interesting throughout the scripture,
and even in our lives as we examine our own lives,
we find that these two things are so closely associated,
what we believe and how we behave,
because of what we believe,
and we see that repeatedly through the scriptures,
and we find in these few verses of scripture
that Paul is going to give instruction
with regard to their behavior,
and also in regard to their belief,
and so notice with me number one very simply,
instruction on behavior.
We see it in verses 11 through 13.
We've read the verses already,
and so let's look at what Paul says.
He's really issuing to them in this instruction
on behavior, he's issuing to them a call to godly living.
You know, it's important that we live godly.
I had the opportunity on the porch the other day
with an Amazon delivery driver
to be able to share the gospel with that man,
and be able to share with him truth,
and ask him about heaven,
and he thought that through some good works
that he could do by stopping doing some things
that he thought were bad habits
that he might be able to get to heaven,
and I told him that our behavior
is not what allows us to go to heaven.
How good we are, quote unquote, by the world's standards
is not the measuring rod for whether we go to heaven
when we die, it's all because of what Jesus Christ did
on the cross of Calvary,
and I'm thankful for the death, burial,
and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ,
and I did say this to the young man.
I said, now, for those that have been saved,
and have been born again, we ought to live right.
Now, we live right, the apostle Paul deals with
in the book of Ephesians, we live right,
not so that we can be saved, not so that we can stay saved,
but we live right because we are saved,
and Jesus is doing a work in us,
the Holy Spirit of God is doing a work in us,
and we have this desire, we have truly
the liberty now to please God.
You understand that we've been delivered
from the bondage of sin, we've been given liberty,
so often the subject of liberty is misunderstood
to have this idea that I have liberty,
I can do what I want, but truly,
as you examine the thought of liberty
throughout the scriptures, you find that really,
it's the liberty to serve God.
It's the ability now that I have to please my God.
You know, all of our good works, quote unquote,
as lost people, are referred to as being as filthy rags.
All of our, as a lost person, any good work,
according to what Isaiah says,
is likened unto filthy rags.
However, we find that in the New Testament,
we talk about those that have been born again,
we are to be zealous of good works.
We are to, why?
Because he that hath begun a good work in you
will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ,
and we are his workmanship, according to Ephesians 2,
and verse number 10, and so we think about this call
to godly living, Paul is not issuing this call
to close this letter, to give them a formula,
if you will, for how to be saved.
No, he's not giving them a formula for how to stay saved.
Notice he says, finally, brethren.
He's talking to people that are already saved,
and he's gonna issue to them this call to live godly.
Notice it's broken up, really, there's four aspects of it.
He says, number one, be perfect, be perfect.
Now, you'll recall last week, in verse number nine,
when we were talking about Paul's concern
for these believers in Corinth and for their growth,
their spiritual growth, we noticed in verse number nine
that the apostle Paul said, for we are glad
when we are weak, and ye are strong,
and this also we wish, even your perfection.
And I spent some time last week dealing
with that word perfection in verse number nine,
and now we find here in verse number 11
that Paul says, be perfect.
That idea of perfection, that idea of being perfect
is that of spiritual maturity, being complete.
And I'm so thankful that I'm complete in Christ.
Hold your spot here in 2 Corinthians.
Look over to the book of Colossians, if you will.
In Colossians chapter number two,
the apostle Paul's writing to these believers
that he's not met personally,
but he's heard about their faith, and he prays for them.
In fact, if you were to study the prayer
of the apostle Paul for these believers in Colossae
in chapter number one, it's so powerful
how that he's praying for their spiritual growth
and maturity and his desire that they would please God.
And we find that as you come to the second chapter,
beginning in verse number six,
notice what Paul says to them,
as ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord,
notice, so walk ye in him.
You got saved, you heard the gospel,
you trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior,
now walk in him, abide in him, live for him.
I said this as we've studied through
the book of 2 Corinthians,
the truth is mentioned throughout the book.
We're going to, if you're saved this morning,
you're going to live with him forever.
The question is not whether we'll live with him forever,
the question is whether we'll live for him today.
And he's saying be perfect, be complete.
Notice in verse number seven of Colossians two,
rooted and built up in him and established in the faith
as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving.
Beware, lest any man spoil you through.
philosophy in vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of
the world, and not after Christ. For in Him dwelleth all the fullness of the
Godhead bodily, and then notice the truth of verse 10, and ye are complete in Him,
which is the head of all principality and power. You know, if you're not saved
you're not complete. If you're not saved you're not complete. You're missing
something, and that something is the Lord Jesus Christ being born again, and when
you're saved you're complete in Him. Not only are you complete in Him, but He's
doing a work in us, and we find this idea of being perfect, being spiritually
mature, having that idea of completion and maturity, and we find here that Paul
issues this challenge. Now, in verse number nine he prayed for it. When he
says, this also we wish, I mentioned this to you last week, that word wish is also
that it carries with it the idea of praying for, and this also we wish, even
your perfection. But then Paul says, be perfect. Now think about that just for a
moment with me. The spiritual leader says, I'm praying that you'll be complete in
Christ. I'm praying that you'll be spiritually mature, that you'll come to
this place of perfection, but now there's something you need to do. Their perfection
was not going to come just because Paul prayed for it. Amen? They had to make
choices. They had to incorporate truth in their lives. They had to apply truth in
their life. They had to be doers of the Word and not hearers only. If they were
going to have that spiritual maturity, and the same is the case for us here
today, the reality is that I can pray, and I often pray for you individually and
for your spiritual growth and spiritual maturity, but the reality is that my
prayer for you on your behalf is not going to make you read your Bible. It's
not going to make you apply truth in your life. You have to do it. Amen? You
gotta apply it. And so that's why Paul, when he comes to this conclusion, when he
comes to this final charge, if you will, he says, be perfect. Take that which has
been given and apply it in your life. Be mature spiritually. He says this in verse
number 11, back in 2nd Corinthians 13, be of good comfort. Be of good comfort. This
phraseology carries with it the idea of consoling one, encouraging one, and we
begin to think about the ministry that we have as brothers and sisters in
Christ and comforting one another. In fact, over in 1st Thessalonians chapter
number 5 and verse number 14, we find that the Apostle Paul issues this
challenge to the believers at the church in Thessalonica, and he says it this way
in 1st Thessalonians 5 and 14, now we exhort you, brethren, and he gives them
multiple challenges here. Number one, warn them that are unruly, and then he
says this, comfort the feeble-minded. Number three, support the weak, and then
he says be patient toward all men. That second idea there where he says comfort
the feeble-minded, and we find here in 2nd Corinthians 13 that he says be of
good comfort, to console, to encourage. The word, the phrase there, feeble-minded,
in 1st Thessalonians 5 and verse 14, it's a word that's so
important for us to understand, and it carries with it those that would be
faint-hearted, faint of heart, those that are easily discouraged when faced with
difficulty. You know, we find that there are individuals that can be overcome,
overwhelmed, as the psalmist uses that phrase. The circumstances and adversities
of life can overwhelm us, and we can become discouraged, and so what is
it that we do? Well, we comfort one another. Now remember, he says be of good
comfort. Remember, the Holy Spirit is the comforter. Remember, our God is the God of
all comfort, but we're reminded all the way back in 2nd Corinthians chapter
1 that the Apostle Paul tells these believers that God is the God of all
comfort in verse number 3. In verse number 4, he says, who comforteth us in
all our tribulation, but then notice that we may be able to comfort them which are
in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God, and so
God comforts us. He's the God of all comfort. The Holy Spirit is the comforter
and His ministry in us, but then we are to comfort one another, and we find here
that he says be of good comfort. Number three in our charge here, this
instruction on behavior, he says this in verse number 11, be of one mind. Be of one
mind. What is that? Well, that's unity. It's unity, and it's be of one mind. Whose
mind? Your mind, my mind, somebody else's mind, whoever this leader is, and whoever's
the most personable person within the congregation, the one that kind of takes
the lead, be of their... no. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus.
Amen. The mind of God. How do we get the mind of the Lord? Well, the Word of
God, and so when he says be of one mind, when he has this charge, the issues, this
instruction on behavior, remember the church in Corinth was known for its
schisms and its divisions. Guess what that is? It's not of one mind. Amen? I'm
of Paul. I'm of... right? They go through that whole thing, and what is that? These
schisms, these divisions, all this stuff that's going on, and Paul says be of one
mind, have unity. How is it that we can have unity? Well, I mentioned already what
Paul says in Philippians 2, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ
Jesus, and that we have, he tells actually the believers in Corinth, we have the
mind of Christ, we have the Word of God, and what a blessing that is. And it's not
that... when we think about this thing of unity, unity is not going to be achieved
by people saying, well, we're gonna just agree to disagree, we're gonna just set
aside some things and try to have unity. No, because it's always gonna come up,
it's always gonna become an issue. I have found this to be the case. The greatest
way to have unity amongst believers is for every believer to say we're gonna
agree with God. We're just gonna agree with this book, and if we're gonna agree with
this book, if we're gonna be able to go and look at principles and study truth
and be able to say we're going to take what God has said, we're gonna agree
with God, then we can have unity. Notice what the Bible says in the book of
Ephesians about the subject of unity. In Ephesians chapter 4, turn there quickly,
keep your place in 2nd Corinthians, but in Ephesians chapter 4, Paul is writing
to this church in Ephesus, and when he comes to the fourth chapter, he starts
dealing with practical application. The first three chapters, if you were to
study the book of Ephesians, you'll find it's very doctrinal in nature, and it
deals with our position in Christ. And as you get into chapters 4, 5, and 6, it
becomes very practical in nature, becomes dealing with really our walk now that
we're saved. In fact, he says this in verse number 1, I therefore the prisoner
of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are
called, with all loneliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one
another in love. And then notice what he says, endeavoring to keep the unity of
the Spirit in the bond of peace. You know, it is a pleasant thing when God's people
walk in agreement, when we walk in unity. And again, that unity is only going to be
achieved as we agree with one another that we're going to agree with God. What
has God said? You know, how many times you have somebody says, well, what do you
believe about this? And what do you believe about that? And what do you
believe about this? And they go through this whole list of things, and they share
with you whatever their thoughts are, and from maybe some resources of higher
education, or whatever it might be. But you say, listen, here's what I believe
based upon what God said. Your opinion doesn't matter as much. My
opinion doesn't matter as much as what God has said. Amen? And God's Word is
clear. And oftentimes what people will do is they'll try to find some obscure
thing and say, well, God's Word doesn't talk about this. And they'll find some
obscure topic, and God's Word doesn't speak about this. You say, okay, but are there
principles in God's Word that we can take the principles and apply them in
these particular arenas of life? And I believe that if you're honest with the
Scriptures, you'll find that there are principles that will guide us to living
a life that is pleasing to God. We find that He says, be perfect, be of good
comfort, be of one mind. And then He says this, live in peace. How many of you like peace?
Amen, right? It's not a fun thing when you got turmoil, right? When people are at
each other, and all sorts of things going on. And listen, sometimes it's family
turmoil, sometimes it's church turmoil, sometimes it's work. I mean, you know,
relationships. And earlier in the book, we dealt with various aspects of
relationships and how Paul said...
What happens when you're misunderstood?
How do you respond to being misunderstood?
And all of those things that we looked at
through the book of 2 Corinthians.
And he says as he finishes up the book,
live in peace, live in peace.
I think about this and it's interesting
in the book of Acts in the seventh chapter
as Stephen is preaching and he's sharing history
of the nation of Israel.
He says this, it's a very interesting statement
that he makes in verse number 26.
And the next day he, that's Moses,
showed himself unto them, the two Hebrews,
as they strove.
So think about what's happening.
I can't get into the whole context of it,
but remember Moses had killed an Egyptian earlier
like the day before, right?
And he comes and these two Hebrews are fighting,
they're striving, and Moses comes
and he's gonna try to settle the dispute.
And it says that, notice in verse number 26,
that he showed himself unto them, notice,
as they strove and would have set them at one again.
So they were at odds, right?
They strove.
And he says that it says here
that he would have set them at one again,
bringing to them some level of agreement.
Remember in the book of 2 Corinthians,
we understand that we've been given
the ministry of reconciliation.
We spoke about that for several weeks
and we talked about the fact
that the ministry of reconciliation
that's been entrusted to us is because
we have been reconciled.
And what is the ministry of reconciliation?
Well, it's that we're trying to reconcile
two parties that are at variance.
Who are they?
Well, God and sinful man.
God did nothing wrong, but man violated God's commandment
and needs to be reconciled and reconciliation
is through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And we dealt with that for several weeks
as we looked in 2 Corinthians 5
and noticed all of that with regard to the ministry.
But I said this way back then,
I said, how is it that we're gonna go out
and talk to people about being reconciled to God
when we have strife in our own lives
with people that were family members,
church members, there's strife,
and we're gonna go try to talk to people
about reconciliation.
And we're not applying, we might be have been
and reconciled to God and we're saved and that's wonderful,
but we're not reconciled in our relationships.
Live in peace.
Notice in Acts 7, he says this at the end of the verse,
he says, saying, sirs, ye are brethren.
Why do ye wrong one to another?
Isn't that a great question?
I mean, there's really nothing more to say to it.
You just let that sink in for a minute.
That Moses said to them, you're brethren,
you're brethren, why do you wrong one to another?
Live in peace.
Paul said this in Romans 12 and verse 18.
And I think it's a verse that's important
that we apply properly.
He says, if it be possible,
as much as lieth in you live peaceably with all men.
Some people quickly try to take this verse and say,
well, it's just, I tried, it's just not possible.
And it's, you know, you're the one
that has to examine your own heart
on if you've really put forth the effort.
But he says, if it be possible, as little as he says,
as much as lieth in you live peaceably with all men.
Paul says to the believers in Corinth
as he finishes this letter, he gives them this charge
and he speaks to them about godly living.
Listen, I believe this morning
that God wants us to live a certain way.
He wants us to behave a certain way.
He said that we're to be holy as he is holy
in all manner of conversation.
And so Paul summarizes it with these four statements,
be perfect, be of good comfort,
be of one mind, live in peace.
Wow, that's great instruction.
I mean, he's summarizing all these things
that he shared with this church,
with this body of believers
throughout these previous chapters
and he's giving them this final charge.
And then notice not only a call to godly living,
but we see the consequences of godly living
at the end of verse number 11.
Notice what the Bible says,
and the God of love and peace shall be with you.
Isn't that a wonderful statement?
And the God of love and peace shall be with you.
He is the God of love.
He is the God of peace.
His peace is a peace that passeth all understanding.
We read that in the book of Philippians
and we find that it says that he'll be with you.
And consider this with me this morning.
I understand the truth and the promise
that he'll never leave us nor forsake us,
but I want you to understand that God resisteth the proud.
We talked about that earlier, right?
In second Corinthians chapter 12.
And there is something different
between God's presence being with us
with that sweet communion, all right,
as we're abiding in him
and we're doing what we're supposed to be doing.
We're living like we're supposed to live
and we have that sweet fellowship with him.
There's something different in that
than the statement of he'll never leave us nor forsake us.
I'm thankful that I'm sealed under the day of redemption.
I can never, if you're saved this morning,
you could never lose your salvation.
But my fellowship can be hindered with God.
The Bible talks about in the Old Testament
where the Ichabod, the glory of the Lord has departed.
The New Testament, the book of Revelation in chapter three
talks about the church of the Laodiceans
and God himself is on the outside of the church knocking.
If any man will open, I will come into him, right?
And I mean, we find that sweet truth of fellowship
and we look in Revelation three,
I don't wanna read the whole verse
because I just butchered trying to quote it.
But in Revelation chapter three,
notice exactly how the Lord says this
with regard to this truth.
In verse number 20, behold, I stand at the door and knock.
You don't knock on someone's door if you're already inside.
Right?
You knock on their door
if you're on the outside trying to get in.
Behold, I stand at the door and knock.
If any man hear my voice and open the door,
I will come in to him and will sup with him and he with me.
Man, that sweet fellowship that we can enjoy
with the Lord Jesus Christ.
Paul says, be perfect, be of good comfort,
be of one mind, live in peace
and the God of love and peace shall be with you.
That sweet fellowship and communion
that we enjoy with our Savior.
Truly, as the psalmist said in Psalm 1611,
he said that in thy presence is fullness of joy.
And we have the opportunity to experience
that fullness of joy as we abide in him.
John 15 speaks much about that truth of abiding in him.
And Jesus uses the illustration that he's the vine
and we're the branches and without him,
we can do nothing and we're to abide in him.
We're to walk with him.
What a joy that we can have fellowship with our God.
Psalms, the Bible says, if I regard iniquity in my heart,
the Lord will not hear me.
It's not that he can't hear you,
it's that your sin has separated you.
That fellowship has been hindered.
And so as we take the truth of verse number 11,
Paul's saying, listen, you want the God of love and peace
to be with you.
You wanna have that sweet fellowship and that communion.
You gotta live a certain way.
God inhabits the praise of his people.
We read that in the book of Psalms.
And so this morning, we begin to look at what's happening
here in this instruction on behavior, a call,
but also the consequence.
We read in verses 12 and 13 of common greeting
with regard to these oft familiar phrases
at the end of these books,
greet one another with an holy kiss.
And that was something and still is in some cultures today,
something that is very common.
It's not common in our culture here in America.
And sometimes you have somebody that comes to you
from another country, another culture,
and they try to do that.
You're like, whoa, hold on, I'm not used to that, right?
But it was extremely common.
This was their culture.
This is how they greeted one another.
You go over to the Middle Eastern countries
and other countries of the world,
and you find that even still today, this is the culture.
This is how they greet one another.
And we find that he says, all the saints salute you.
I begin to think about verses 12 and 13
and just the blessedness of the family of God.
The fact that we're brothers and sisters in Christ,
when he says, all the saints salute you,
that word saint carries with it the idea
of those that have been redeemed,
those that are in Christ, Christ is in them.
They've been saved by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And he says, all the saints salute you.
And here's what I rejoice in as you have an opportunity,
as I've had opportunity to travel.
You know what you do?
You find that there are believers all over the world.
Brother Jeff just shared last week
about his trip report to Fiji.
And there were some believers there
that they were to have.
fellowship with. And I've been to countries where, when we're in Panama, not too long ago,
there were people that were brothers and sisters in Christ, and though we had language barriers,
there were opportunities to have fellowship. And it's exciting to know that the family of God,
yes, the local church is the primary emphasis and focus throughout the New Testament,
but we understand there are local churches all over. And the fact that all the saints salute
you, listen, what a joy to know that there are other believers in other communities and in other
states and in other countries that stand on the same truth, that preach the same book,
that are seeking to please the same God. It's exciting. It's a blessing where you can travel
all over this world, and you can find brothers and sisters in Christ. And Paul says,
all the saints salute you. I think about this also from being a source of encouragement
to know that other people are getting saved. Other people are getting saved. I read, I shared,
I can't remember the number, I shared with the family last night, I saw this report yesterday
that in France, what was it, every 15 minutes? Is that what it was? There was a new church being,
a new evangelical church. Now, I don't, I'm not endorsing, I don't know what that really
captures and means, but every 15 minutes, they said that a new church was starting in this period
of time. It was amazing. I thought, what in the world? That's a lot of churches. Can I tell you
that France needs churches? That Eastern Europe, man, there's some areas in those parts of the
world there where, man, they had the light of the gospel. You think about England. They had the light
of the gospel. And man, the changes in that landscape and so many churches that are now
apartment buildings and mosques and all sorts of other things. And I'm thankful when I hear about
new churches that are being established. People are getting saved and lives are being changed,
and it's a joy, it's a blessing. And I think that would bring a source of encouragement
to these believers in Corinth that all the saints salute you. There are other people
out there that are living and seeking to serve and please God. Sometimes if we're not careful,
we can get like Elijah. I'm the only one. Amen? Sometimes you can get like Elijah.
I'm the only one. No one else. But all the saints salute you. I'm thankful that there's some
faithful, faithful men of God, some faithful churches with some brothers and sisters in Christ
that are gathering even today, worshiping the same God, serving the same God, preaching the
same message. And to God be the glory. Now we notice as we move into the final verse of this
book, instruction not only on behavior, but then we come to verse number 14 and we see instruction
on belief. Verse 14 is an extremely clear, obvious reference to the Trinity. Notice the Bible says,
the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Ghost
be with you all. Amen. What a great verse of Scripture that reminds us that the early church
believed in the teaching of the Trinity. And it's an important truth. We find it throughout
the Scriptures and it's a truth that has been often attacked. And I've said this many times
over the years. One of the reasons you read the book of 1 John, one of the reasons that the
deity of Christ is so often attacked is because if you get it wrong about Christ, you get it wrong.
Like it's an eternal consequence. Amen. And so we find this obvious reference to the Trinity.
But as we break down the three parts of it, I want you to notice what he says. He says, the grace
of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to think about that. And obviously we're in this Christmas
season, but really the reference there of the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to the truth of
the incarnation, the incarnation. Notice if you will look at a couple of verses with me,
go over to the book of John, if you will, John chapter number one. And then we'll go back to
a reference in the book of second Corinthians that Paul would no doubt be building upon as he closes
out the book and speaks about the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. But back in John chapter number
one, we read this to begin the book. And what a powerful opening to the book of John in the
beginning was the word and the word was with God. And the word was God. The same was in the beginning
with God. All things were made by him. And without him was not anything made that was made in him was
life. And the life was the light of men. I'm going to skip down to verse number 14. The Bible says,
and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only
begotten of the father. Notice this full of grace and truth. And so we find this reference, the
grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and seeking to make this application this morning to a reminder of the
incarnation. Listen, it's important. We talk about our belief. Listen, we got to believe right about
Jesus. This time of year, when we talk about the miraculous birth of the Lord Jesus Christ,
the incarnation, the miraculous conception, the fact that he's born of a virgin, I mean,
the fulfillment of prophecy and the miracle of the birth of Christ. It's so important that we
understand this and we get this proper. We get this right. And it's full of grace and truth.
We read at the end of verse number 14. And what a joy to understand this. And he continues in verse
number 17, mentioning about this grace. He says, for the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth
came by Jesus Christ, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. But now let me remind you of what he had
said to the believers in Corinth earlier. Turn back to second Corinthians. We studied this several
weeks ago. We're at the last of the chapter or the last of the book. But look in chapter eight,
if you will. In fact, it was a verse, if I'm not mistaken, that was a memory verse for us this
calendar year in second Corinthians eight and verse number nine. Notice what he says, for ye know
the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor,
that ye through his poverty might be rich. And we see that he starts out verse number nine by saying,
for ye know, what does he say? The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so back there as he finishes
the book in verse number 14, he says the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he's referencing that.
And I believe it's important that we understand the reference to the incarnation, even in verse nine
of chapter eight, when he says that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor.
If you were to study over there in John chapter number 17, you read about the glory that Jesus
Christ had before the world was and how he left the throne room of heaven to be robed in flesh,
to come to the sin-cursed world, to put on human flesh. Why? Because it was the only way for man
to be redeemed. If you read the book of Hebrews in the second chapter, the Bible talks about that
he tasted death for every man. And the Bible talks about within that passage of scripture that,
listen, he didn't come in the form of an angel. Why? Because an angel can't save you.
An angel can't save me. An angel didn't die in your place. No, Jesus Christ,
he came in the form of man, in the likeness of man. Why? Because he had to do that in order to pay
for the sin of humanity. And I'm thankful. Listen, the incarnation is important.
The truth of the deity of Christ, it's important that we believe that. Listen,
there's no wiggle room. There's no, let's agree to disagree. There's no, no, no. Jesus said,
whom say men that I am? Whom say ye that I am? Right? Well, some say that you're John the Baptist.
Some say that you're Jeremiah or Isaiah, one of the other prophets, so on and so forth. And when
he says, but whom say ye that I am? Peter stands up with great boldness. Thou art the Christ,
the son of the living God. All the way to this very day, multitudes, multitudes have been deceived
by the little g God of this world with regard to who Jesus is. He's God. He's 100% God,
100% man. He came to this earth to do for us what no one else could possibly do for us.
And so when he talks about their belief, listen, he starts with Jesus.
Starts with the incarnation, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. But then he says this, notice,
and the love of God. Aren't you thankful for God's love? Nothing, Paul says in the book of Romans,
can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. But I want you to think about
the love of God, even as we spoke about the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ,
speaking about the incarnation, the love of God, speaking about redemption.
Oft quoted, very familiar verse of scripture, John 3, 16, for God so loved the world that he gave
his only begotten son, the whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
Listen, we look through that passage of scripture in John 3, and we find that he tells us there
that God, he sent not a son of the world to condemn the world, but that the world through
him might be saved. He says at the end of the book in verse number 36,
Assuming the end of the chapter, he says,
he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life,
and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life,
but the wrath of God abideth on him.
We often also quote Romans 5, verse number eight,
God commendeth his love toward us,
and that while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us.
God commendeth his, he demonstrated his love
towards us through Calvary.
Calvary's the greatest expression of love.
The absolute greatest expression of love is Calvary.
And I'm so thankful that God loved me,
and that God loved you.
And when he says the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ,
the incarnation, then he talks about the love of God,
the redemption, look at 1 John 3, if you will.
I quoted John 3, in verse 16, but I want you to read
with me 1 John 3, in verse number 16.
And well, what a verse.
And it's a wonderful truth, where we find again,
when Paul mentions the love of God.
Speaking about their belief, you ought to behave properly,
but you need to believe properly.
And if you believe properly, you will behave properly.
If I truly believe I'm gonna stand before God,
I'm gonna give an account.
It's gonna impact how I behave, amen?
He says this in verse 16 of 1 John 3,
hereby perceive we, what?
The love of God, because he laid down his life for us.
By the way, who laid down his life for us?
Jesus Christ, he's God.
Hereby perceive we the love of God,
because he laid down his life for us,
and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
Paul says, let me summarize how you should behave.
Let me summarize some important beliefs.
You gotta believe in the incarnation,
the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Gotta believe in redemption, the love of God.
Listen, I'm thankful this morning,
when we think about redemption,
redeemed how I love to proclaim it.
We sing the song, but redemption comes only
through the blood of Christ.
There's only one way to be redeemed,
and it's through Jesus.
There's no other way.
Jesus is the only way.
And then notice as he finishes, he says,
and the communion of the Holy Ghost.
The word communion means fellowship.
I begin to think about the truth of those
that recognize who Jesus is, that he's God,
the incarnation, they recognize what Jesus did,
that he died on the cross to pay for their sins.
He was buried and they rose again,
and he rose again, and they accept Jesus Christ
as their personal savior.
Then you have the communion of the Holy Ghost.
You have that equipping, that empowering, that abiding.
And what a joy to think about the entirety
of the Christian life summarized
in just a few simple statements here.
I'm reminded of what the Apostle Paul tells
those in the region of Galatians, Galatians five.
Notice if you will, in Galatians five,
just a few pages over for you.
They're from 2 Corinthians 13,
and in Galatians five, in verse number 16,
there's a verse that we often quote,
then we're gonna skip over and read verses 24 and 25
with it, but notice in verse 16,
this I say then, walk in the spirit,
and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh.
Isn't that a wonderful promise that God has given to us?
What a wonderful opportunity that I can walk in the spirit,
the communion of the Holy Ghost,
that because I am his, because I've been saved,
I've been born again, that I can walk in the spirit.
He then says this in verse 24, and they that are Christ.
Now, pause there just for a moment.
Aren't you thankful that you belong to him?
If you're here this morning, and you don't know Jesus Christ
as your personal savior, can I tell you
that today is the day of salvation?
Listen, don't delay.
Stop putting it off.
We talked about last week examining yourselves.
There are some that say, well,
look at all these other people.
Listen, I made a decision when I was 17 years old.
I got saved when I was 17,
but I made a profession of faith earlier.
Somebody said to me, do you wanna go to hell when you die?
No, I don't wanna go to hell.
I was 13 years old.
I was in a church.
It was a church where my parents got saved.
I said, okay, we'll pray this prayer,
and I really had no idea, didn't understand anything
about what I was doing.
That's why I said that I got saved when I was 17,
because I made that profession of faith,
but I didn't understand.
I remember when I was 17 years old,
recognizing that I was lost and I needed to be saved,
and there was this little bit of pressure
that I had as a 17-year-old
of wonder what everyone's gonna think.
I was already in church with my parents.
At that point, my dad had moved
to two different duty stations in the Marine Corps,
and we're at a church.
We had just started attending this church,
and my parents had shared their testimony of salvation,
and we had talked about that profession of faith
and what have you,
and I realized I was not saved, and I need to be saved.
And for just a moment, there was some fear that came in
of I wonder what other people are gonna think.
You know what I did?
I said, I don't care what anyone thinks.
I'm not going to hell for anyone.
I'm not going to hell.
I knew I was lost.
I needed to be saved, and I'm not gonna care
about what other people say or think or whatever.
Like, I need to get it settled.
And on August 31st, 1997, I got it settled,
and I couldn't, listen, I didn't care what anyone thought.
You know what I found out?
Everyone rejoiced.
It was wonderful.
It was a blessing.
And he says this, and they that are Christ,
I'm so thankful that I belong to him.
I am his and he is mine, hallelujah.
But it says this, they that are Christ
have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust.
If we live in the spirit, let us also walk in the spirit.
And Paul finishes up by saying,
in the communion of the Holy Ghost,
that fellowship that we get to enjoy.
See, the Bible tells us that our body
is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you,
which you have of God.
I'm thankful that the moment I got saved
that the Holy Spirit took up residence.
He indwells me.
I'm to be filled with the Spirit of God.
That requires me to be emptied of self
so that I could be filled with the Spirit of God.
And as I'm filled with and I walk with,
he empowers me and he equips me.
The Bible says this, and we quote it off in Acts 1,
but ye shall receive power after that
the Holy Ghost has come upon you.
And ye shall be witnesses unto me,
both in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria
and the uttermost part of the earth.
And so we find that as we look at that truth in Acts 1
in verse number eight, that we understand
ye shall receive power, that's the equipping.
The gifts of the Holy Spirit, where do they come from?
God equips us to every man severally as he will.
That's why we look at the memory verse for this month
in 1 Peter 4 and verse number 10,
as every man hath received the gift, right?
Not the gift of salvation,
that's not what he's dealing with there.
He's talking about the spiritual gifts.
Even so minister the same one to another
as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
And we find here this morning that these,
now again, this is not a book written here
on a dissertation written on doctrine
in a full doctrinal statement,
but he sums up everything that he deals with in this book
in just a few verses of scripture
by talking about how you're supposed to behave.
God cares how we live, it matters to God.
You say, I'm going to heaven, it doesn't really matter.
No, no, I want God's blessing, I want God's favor,
I want God to be pleased with me, amen?
There were times as a child that no doubt, very few times,
but there were times that I disappointed my parents.
I didn't like disappointing my parents.
I don't like disappointing people in general.
And I think about my relationship with my God,
I want to please him.
I want to have that sweet fellowship and communion with him.
I want to allow his word to impact my life
and I want to live out the principles
that he's given to us.
Again, the Apostle Paul praying for these believers
that he could, as he says,
this also we wish even your perfection,
that prayer was not going to make them spiritually mature
because he tells them, be perfect.
There's something you have to do.
There's taking that truth that you've heard
and applying it in your life
and being that doer of the word and not a hearer only.
So he says, be perfect.
Notice, be of good comfort.
He says to them, to be of one mind,
to have that unity, to live in peace.
And then he speaks to them about belief.
He says, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ,
reminder of the incarnation.
I'm so thankful that Jesus came.
Aren't you thankful?
Listen, we understand he didn't come to in that stable,
to stay in that stable and that, no, he came to die.
He was born to die.
We understand that.
And he's not still on that cross
because he was buried and he rose again, hallelujah.
He's at the right hand of the Father.
He ever liveth to make intercession for us
and he's coming back for us.
It's wonderful, but the incarnation,
the truth of redemption, the love of God
and the communion, the fellowship of the Holy Ghost,
that equipping and empowering.
What a joy and blessing to know.
And this morning, as Paul summarizes the entirety of the book, he says, listen, I want to give
you a charge on how to live, how to behave, and then how to believe.
Don't come to a place in your life where you say, well, that's good for somebody else.
That's good for them.
Don't come to a place where you're willing to compromise on doctrine, on truth.
No one's going to stand on truth.
Every once in a while, Bart wears a shirt on Wednesday night that says, Doctrine Matters.
And I like that shirt.
Why?
Because doctrine matters.
It does.
You say, yeah, but doctrine divides.
It truly does, absolutely.
But doctrine matters.
We're to be sound in the faith.
We're to have sound doctrine.
So Paul says, listen, there's a way to behave and there's a way to believe.
This morning, what a great challenge for us as we finish up the book of 2 Corinthians,
as we examine ourselves, as we hear the charge that Paul issues, and then we say, okay, here's
how I got to apply it in my life.
Here's what I got to do, because I want to be a doer of the word and not a hearer only.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
We thank you so much for loving us.
Thank you for this wonderful book, the book of 2 Corinthians.
We thank you for the Bible, and the Bible is so precious, profitable.
Lord, we pray that as we've had opportunity to examine these few verses of Scripture and
how they're packed with truth.
And God, I pray that you would help each one of us this morning to recognize, just as those
original recipients had to recognize, what am I going to do with what I've been told?
How am I going to respond to all that I've read?
Lord, help us to live in such a way that you'd be honored and glorified, that you'd be pleased.
Help us to believe properly, to have sound doctrine.
Help us, Lord, as we have this moment of invitation, Lord, help us to be surrendered and yielded,
to allow you to have your way.
Lord, that we would be doers of the word, and we'll thank you for it in Christ's name.
We pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
We're just going to play quietly on the piano.
As she does, the altar is open.